{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff13\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset204 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset204 Times;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset204 Helvetica;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset204 Helvetica;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset204 Courier;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}
{\f7\fnil\fcharset0 MT Extra;}
{\f8\fnil\fcharset238 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f9\fnil\fcharset238 Times;}
{\f10\fnil\fcharset238 Helvetica;}
{\f11\fnil\fcharset238 Helvetica;}
{\f12\fnil\fcharset238 Courier;}
{\f13\fnil\fcharset0 Times;}
{\f14\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\f15\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\f16\fnil\fcharset0 Courier;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\fs22\snext0 Normal;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40\li0 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s1\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40\li0 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24\li2048 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32\li512 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24\li2560 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32\li1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24\li1536 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 part;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was shagun_resume.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 1.9.19 (released Nov 20 2007) on Thu Oct  3 23:26:56 2013
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\tqc\tx4172\tqr\tx8345 \tab \tab \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Page \chpgn  of {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMLastPage \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{LastPage}}}\par}
{\header\pard\plain\tqc\tx4172\tqr\tx8345  \fs20 2200, Waterview Pkway \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Richardson, Texas 75080 \tab  {\b \fs37 Shagun Jhaver}\par
\tab \fs20 \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 972-740-4821 (phone) \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 sxj124330@utdallas.edu \par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl1958\margr1977\margt2011\margb1567\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f13\aftnnar
{{\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Objective {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300  {To obtain a Summer 2014 internship in the field of Computer Science.} \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Education {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Master of Science in Computer Science}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{Expected Dec 2014}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i The University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson, Texas}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i GPA: 3.945/4}}\cell
\row
}\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Bachelor of Technology in Electrical Engineering}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{August 2010}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay, Mumbai, India}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i GPA: 7.46/10}}\cell
\row
}\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb100 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Programming Skills {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
{\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \li600\fi-300 {2} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Languages:} {\b {\i Python}}, C++, Java \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Operating Systems:} Linux, Windows }  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Miscellaneous:} Hadoop, MapReduce, Pig Latin, Hive, Mahout, Cassandra, MySQL, Git, MATLAB, HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Research Projects {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Developing a new system for Big Data Analytics}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{Summer 2013}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i Brown University}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Providence, Rhode Island}}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Worked on a project to construct a distributed memory abstraction using LLVM and Julia that lets the programmers perform in-memory computations on large clusters in a fault-tolerant manner.  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Hybridization Methods for the analysis of Biomolecular Networks}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{May 2009 - July 2009}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i Institut National De Recherche En Informatique Et En Automatique}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Paris, France}}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Proposed a mathematical model to calculate {\i Violation Degree}, a measure of how far a given numerical trace is from satisfying a temporal logic specification.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Composed a {\b MATLAB} library to implement this model  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Increased the calculation speed of {\i Violation Degree} by about 30 times and demonstrated the calculations for more complex specification models and properties.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Fashioned this library to guide the search for models satisfying a given specification.  \par
}}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb100 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Relevant Coursework {p\'ca}}}}}} {{2} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \li600\fi-300 -0.1em \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Design and Analysis of Computer Algorithms} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Artificial Intelligence} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Advanced Database: Big Data Analytics} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Database Design} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Machine Learning} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Natural Language Processing} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Discrete Mathematics} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Operating Systems Concepts} \par
}}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Academic Projects {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Comparative analysis of approaches to sentiment analysis of tweets}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Jan 2013 - May 2013}}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i Guide: Prof. Latifur Khan}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i }}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Implemented an application of twitter data processing in {\b Java} that predicted the ratings of movies using three different approaches, and compared the ratings obtained with IMDB rating.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab The first approach used standard lists of positive and negative words to classify each tweet.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab The second approach used the sentiment140 api for the classification using {\b MapReduce}.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab The third approach created a classification model using a training-and-testing data with naive Bayes method in {\b Mahout}, and then used this model to classify each tweet, thereby rating it.  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Programming Project in Artificial Intelligence}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Jan 2013 - May 2013}}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i Guide: Prof. Haim Schweitzer}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i }}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Designed and developed a project in {\b Python} that simulates Nine Men\rquote s Morris board game.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Wrote efficient codes to output the best possible moves using the Minimax algorithm and alpha-beta pruning algorithm. The code worked correctly for both white and black players, and in the opening, midgame and end-game phases.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Earned the position of {\b first champion} in the tournament for this game in the class (76 students) using reliable and fast code and innovative self-designed static estimation algorithms.  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Date-Intensive Text Processing with MapReduce}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Jan 2013 - Feb 2013}}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Applied Hadoop mapreduce to derive innovative statistics from the White House Visitor Log containing 2.9 million records.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Wrote efficient programs in Java to output the results and used mapreduce chaining for efficiency.  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Database Design and Implementation Project}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Aug 2012 - Dec 2012}}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Compiled a conceptual design (EER model) for a large custom City library database project.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Developed a relational schema in third normal form for this design and wrote {\b SQL} statements to create the database and views, populate the tables and solve challenging queries.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Assembled the database in Oracle and used a database state to verify the correctness of queries.  \par
}}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb100 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Professional Experience {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Software Developer}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{Jan 2011 - June 2012}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i Future Bazaar}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Mumbai, India}}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Head of the {\i Analytics and Business Intelligence} Team.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Constructed an architecture to carry out ETL (extract, transform and load) processes from multiple databases (ATG, Oracle, MySQL) into a single MySQL database.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Conceptualized and implemented Order Life-cycle Management, a system to assign and regulate order-states to the order-items using {\b Python}.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Independently developed {\i sellers.futurebazaar.com}, an interface for the sellers to track orders, sales summary and product reviews, upload product inventory and edit profile settings.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Helped design and build the E-commerce platforms for the websites {\i futurebazaar.com} and {\i chaupaati.in} using Django, a {\b Python} based website framework.  \par
}}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb100 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Other Work Experience {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\par
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Math Lab Tutor}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{Jan 2013 - Present}\cell
\row
\trowd\cellx8345\cellx16690
\pard\intbl\ql {{\i The Student Success Center, The University of Texas at Dallas}}\cell
\pard\intbl\q{{\i Richardson, Texas}}\cell
\row
} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Tutor students at the University of Texas at Dallas on an individual or group basis.  \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {{226}}\tab Assist in a wide variety of subject areas including math, physics and statistics.  \par
}}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb100 \fi0 {\fs26 {mygrey}{{{{\b Honours {p\'ca}}}}}} {\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {All India Rank 94 in Indian Institute of Technology Joint Entrance Exam 2006 among 300,000 students.} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {All India Rank 396 in All India Engineering Entrance Exam 2006 among 500,000 aspirants.} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {Selected from the state for the 4th Invitational World Youth Mathematics Intercity Competition.}\par
}}}
